My particular fascination with business and management in a global context increases through my academic training, during which I focused heavily on key areas of management, ranging from accounting and business statistics to the marketing, multinational enterprise, and inter-cultural issues in business; through my internship experience in foreign-enterprises, during which I fostered the development of management skills which are essential in the professional world. Now, with strong interest in management and the in-depth reflection on this field, I am determined to take more challenges by applying for your unrivalled university. I believe that your programme will exalt me to a higher professional level and help make my tempting and bright future possible.

Since the year of 2018 when I was admitted by Macao Institute for Tourism Studies, I have been uniquely positioned to be exposed to a wide range of the increasingly complex issues that cover  accounting, international tourism, marketing management, consumer studies and cross cultural communication. These courses have enabled me to develop organizational and business skills that take into account the diversity of cultures involved in this global industry, and abilities in research, time management and presentation methods. For example, my course on Organisational Behavior and Human Resource Management equipped me with a deep understanding of managing human resources in a multicultural context. It taught me to view situations from a variety of perspectives and encouraged me to face with the complexity of working across cultures under the background of globalization. Exposure to real-world case studies addressing some of this century’s most complex cross cultural management challenges has further compounded my passion for finding innovative solutions to how multicultural members work differently and how to improve synergies in a cross-cultural context. I am thus confident that my academics have prepared me well for the challenging courses from diverse disciplines ahead. 

As a student with intellectual curiosity and assiduity, I always expect myself not to be limited to what my academic training to date has endowed me with. Therefore, I feel impelled to seek opportunities to develop and expand knowledge of theories and approaches to understanding and engaging with the dynamic and technologically innovative nature of contemporary management, and create a unique study plan that reflects my research interest after acquiring an inter-disciplinary understanding of the field of global management.

Being an energetic student with a voracious curiosity and hard-working spirit, I am always more than willing to engage in a wide range of topics in the field of business, because I believe interdisciplinary studies will widen my horizon and allow me to have more possibilities for the next stage of my life. In my senior year, I enrolled in Retail and Marketing Business Project. This course required students to carry out a entrepreneurial project. By applying the retail and marketing management theories we have learned, we were expected to design a revitalization plan for a retail company or brand. As the team leader, I arranged brainstorm meetings to explore customer needs and conduct marketing research. Our project aimed at integrating Hong Kong elements in a local milk tea brand and establishing a popular milk tea shop in Macau. Through coordination arrangements and reasonable task assignment, I led our team to successfully help our client open an innovative Hong Kong-style milk tea shop. All our hard work paid off in the end, and we won the Best Project Award. It is worth mentioning that the success of this new milk tea brand was announced in the Macau Government News on July 12, 2021. This experience not only trained me to be well acquainted with entrepreneurial management, but also provided me with a completely new and different perspective on full business plan that includes business research, marketing, financing and strategic management.

Alongside with my academic life, I have involved myself in various internships. These internships experiences have given me ample opportunities to be exposed to retail management, which equipped me with valuable organisation and delegation, problem solving and decision-making, and communication skills necessary to excel in a management position. During my internship at Wynn Palace, a five-star resort hotel, I learned how to manage the entire retail mall and was responsible for ensuring the mall to welcome customers according to Forbes standards. My position required me to cooperate with more than 40 staffs working in the luxury stores, to maintain close and effective cooperation between the merchants and the mall. To achieve this goal, I had to be familiar with each store and assign tasks accordingly in various ways. I also learned how to arrange Retailers Annual Training for the merchants according to their schedules. By practicing and rehearsing, and collecting feedback, I adjusted the training content to better engage the participants and helped them achieve their training goals. At the end of my internship, my performance was highly appraised by the senior colleagues, which deepen my interest in management and encouraged me to pursue the profession by undertaking academic training at postgraduate level. 

As a goal-oriented individual, I know exactly what I want to accomplish and when to accomplish. I have a clear career goal. After getting the Master Degree, I would enter the tourism or luxury goods industry in the Greater Bay Area, and engage in management and operation related positions, so as to ensure a continual update of my knowledge of the ever advancing field of business management. With the accumulation of my working experience, I would like to continue on my path to pursue a doctoral degree to maximize the possibility of my future career as a university professor and professional researcher. 

Hong Kong is the world leader in business and education and where I can best apply my talents to reach my full potential. Having researched the Master of Global Management at HKU, and recognising the department's impressive expertise, I believe that this programme is ideally suited to my academic interests and career aspirations. The course on Dynamics of Multinational Corporations will prepare me well for the challenges of global business managers of multinational corporations with focus on organization, communication and competence. I am also very aware that HKU has an outstanding history of educating business leaders. With your strong network with your alumni, I will have the opportunities to be part of a close-knit community which provides global social connections and professional guidance. I am sure a degree from your university is going to serve as the ultimate base to the journey I am taking to achieve my dreams towards a successful career. Your serious and favorable consideration of my application would be immensely appreciated.


