At 11 years old, I launched a book drive at my elementary school and have continued to donate books to charity ever since. But it wasn’t until I studied informal learning and gave serious thought to the role that books play in children's development that I realized I had been overlooking the most important factors. Although I had the best intentions, my approach was to simply donate the books I have outgrown. I failed to consider the children’s reading levels, their cognitive abilities and literacy, whether they had someone to read with, and if the content was age-appropriate and engaging. 

When it comes to the debate over educational inequities, informal learning doesn't get the weight it deserves, especially in the context of developing countries. Back home in China, policy makers continue to focus on universal access to compulsory education. All the while, the latest technological advances have made their way into preschool and elementary classrooms – whether in the form of streaming podcasts or accessing an educational game app. Despite their clear advantages, incorporating these devices into the classroom setting excludes children from low-income households. Ultimately, the lack of informal learning practices – almost every resource that is outside the classroom – creates a barrier to obtaining a quality education and later life success. Once underserved children reach adulthood, they are likely to be at disadvantage in terms of their knowledge base, receptiveness to new information, and ability to compete with their more privileged peers. 

Bearing that in mind, I am eager to learn how to design for digital reading so that I can work at the intersection of new media and books. On the spectrum of informal learning, reading is a relatively low-barrier entry point, yet distributing paperbacks is inefficient. Physical books carry added costs, are difficult to recycle, and do not have any built-in mechanisms to optimize the experience or a learner’s comprehension. Whereas digital learning requires a greater initial investment, it is much more sustainable. It can facilitate both point-and-speak pronunciation and be equipped with features like recorded video explanations, which allow for guided instruction. 

Although education wasn't my undergraduate major, I'm more than positive that it gave me a different way of looking at inadequate education. I completed my undergraduate degree in Communication Studies at Emerson College, where I explored the creation, delivery, and reception of both verbal and non-verbal messages, and grasped the impact of contemporary technology on informal learning. As I quickly discovered, communication goes hand-in-hand with education, because the goal of the discipline is to impart and exchange information. 

Through such courses like Nonprofit communication, I have dived into forms and practices of communication that enhance well-being, foster compassion, and nurture connection in interpersonal and organizational relationships. Praxis as the other half, I created posters and infographics that promoted goods, activities, and ideas. These simple, yet informative, communications demonstrated a clear logic and concise text that is carefully polished. Just because children's books are geared toward young readers does not mean that standards should be lowered. The challenge for writers and educators is to explain fundamental truths in simplistic terms – to help children develop a sound worldview, especially those with few educational resources and absent caregivers. Overall, viewing educational design through a communications lens helped lay the foundation for me to resolve inequities in our digital age.

It's also worth noting that I took courses in neighboring disciplines and was cultivated to view informal learning design through different facets. Given my minor in publishing, the editing skills and a holistic view of the industry I equipped forged my ability to control content selection. Studying eSports, I gained a window into the development and evolution of the gaming industry, the nuances of game design, and the best practices in UI and UX. Through ASL classes, I learned how to overcome communications barriers through collaborations, interactions and media information transmission, knowledge that I can apply to informal education design for students with limited resources. 

Spending my summer of 2019 at Cambridge Young Learners English institution as a Teaching Assistant helped me to advance teaching skills, student engagement skills, and classroom management expertise. Working close with students of age 6 to14 and their parents, I tempered my capacity on problem-solving, communicating and coordinating. It’s also when I can catch a glimpse of the mind of different ages, and to visualize the mental growth. Believing in my keen observation of the children's abilities and enthusiasm for books, the teacher I was assisting at the time also authorized me to make extracurricular reading selections to develop the students' reading habits and expand knowledges. 

In the children’s book department of Higher Education Press, I have worked in the proposal and proofreading of children's books like World Classics of Children's Literature and Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea. I was able to implement the requirements and publishing standards for children's books, including ideological examination, story continuity deduction, and standard phonetic proofreading, etc. Reviewing the books I've read since childhood with a more sophisticated and professional perspective has been a wonderful, rewarding experience. Down to the choice of each word, I marveled at the meticulous work behind the books, and be gladsome to once again determine that design digital reading is what I want to pursuit.

In addition to the formal internships, my first heart was also extended in NGO activities. With strong social empathy, I have been volunteering in Readmore’s Nonprofit Academic Empowerment Program for children with a focus on book distribution and optimizing reading experiences. I believe my ability to co-ordinate and execute, as while as social commitment will brace me for my future study and career.

Based on my academic interests and career aspirations, I am drawn to the MA in Education and Technology program for its excellent reputation, comprehensive curriculum, expert faculty, and professional development opportunities. Overall, I appreciate the program’s emphasis on acquiring knowledge and skills, engaging in service and scholarship, as well as social responsibility and personal fulfillment. I look forward to studying under Dr Michelle Cannon, given her expertise in media-making in educational settings. Through Researching Digital Learning, Digital Design Thinking and Making, and Learning Design for Blended and Online Education, I can fill in my knowledge gaps in theories, research methodologies and practical case studies of technology and education. Rounding out my education, I will take advantage of the University College London’s resources (e.g., professional development and alumni networks) to fast-track my career and expand my network. 

Looking ahead, as an Ed.M. student, I aim to enrich the department and campus life by leveraging your professional network to foster research collaborations, cultural diversity, and peer mentoring. Taken together, my upbringing, academic background, passion for the field, and depth and breadth of skills will make me an asset to your program.

